
To use PyModel, you do not need to install anything into any system
directories.  Just obtain the PyModel directory and place it under
your home directory.  To get the current development version,

 git clone git@github.com:jon-jacky/PyModel.git

To get version 1.0, download PyModel-1.0.tar.gz or PyModel-1.0.zip
from

 https://pypi.python.org/pypi/PyModel 

or 

 http://staff.washington.edu/jon/pymodel/www/

Then unpack using a tar or zip utility.  Then you can run PyModel
using the commands and modules in the unpacked distribution directory.
Just put PyModel/bin on your execution PATH and PyModel/pymodel on
your PYTHONPATH.  You can achieve this by executing the script
PyModel/bin/pymodel_paths (or pymodel_paths.bat on Windows).  That
script assumes the distribution directory is in your HOME directory
and is named PyModel (not PyModel-1.0, so you many need to rename it).

Confirm that PyModel works for you by running some of the test scripts
in the samples directories.  For example, in
PyModel/samples/PowerSwitch, type the command: trun test (not python
test.py).  You should then see output from several runs of the pmt
program as it executes the PowerSwitch model.

The setup.py script included in the distribution now supports the
install argument, so you can optionally install the PyModel python
modules and commands in system directories (for example in
/Library/Python/2.7/site-packages and /usr/local/bin, respectively).
In the PyModel directory, type the command: sudo python setup.py
install.    Then you should not need to execute pymodel_path, but 
You still need to type the command: source tpath (in Windows, just tpath)
in every session (terminal window).

Most of the distribution is in the examples under PyModel/samples, and
in the documentation under PyModel/notes, www, and talks, and in the
README files in most directories.  Installation does not install these
into any system directories; find them under the unpacked PyModel
distribution directory.

Revised May 2013
