====
Pysa
====
 

NAME
----

pysa - Reverse Engineer Server Configurations  

SYNOPSIS
--------

**pysa** [ **-hpq** ] [ **-m** *module-name* ] [ **-o** *output-path* ]
[ **-f** *filter-config-path* ]  

DESCRIPTION
-----------

**pysa** scans your system and reverse engineers its configurations for
easy replication.

**pysa** was born from the simple idea that today, while the "cloud
revolution" is in progress, it is still hard to keep track of the actual
configuration of our machines and easily replicate it on another
machine.

**pysa** is able to scan your system, looking for different resources to
deploy and generates some "autoconf" tools script to deploy it later on
another computer.

See **RESOURCES** section for complete list of managed resources.

**pysa** is able to generates the configuration in puppet format (see
**`puppet <http://docs.puppetlabs.com/man/>`_\ (1)** man page).  

OPTIONS
-------

-h, --help

Display the short help.

-p, --puppet

Generates *Puppet* output.

-q, --quiet

Activate quiet mode and displays only error messages. By default,
**pysa** displays all log messages.

-m module-name, --module module-name

Choose output module name.

Default value: **pysa**

-o output-path, --output output-path

Choose the output filter for generated scripts.

Default value: **output**

-f filter-config-path, --filter filter-config-path

Specify a filter configuration file.

See **FILTERS** section for more details.

 

RESOURCES
---------

This section describes all the resources scanned by **pysa**

By default, all item described are scanned. However, you can apply some
filters to avoid or specify some. See the **FILTERS** section.

At the current state, the resources objects and keys are similar to
*Puppet* types.

Please see **AUTOCONF TOOLS MODULES** section to be sure to be able to
handle all scanned resources.  

configuration files - file
--------------------------

**pysa** scans (and stores in output module) all files located in a
specific location. Default **/etc**

Primary key: **path**  

packages - package
------------------

**pysa** is able to scan all packages provided by **yum** , **apt-get**
, python **pip** ( **pypi** ), ruby **gems** , nodejs packaged modules (
**npm** ) and php packages managers ( **pear** and **pecl** ).

Furthermore, **pysa** is able to detect repositories **rpm** packages if
**yum** is not present.

Primary key: **name**  

services - service
------------------

**pysa** detects all startup services managed by **upstart** and **SysV
init** scripts.

Please see **NOTES** section.

Primary key: **name**  

hosts - host
------------

**pysa** scans and reproduces existing hostname associations (default
**/etc/hosts** ).

Primary key: **name**  

users - user
------------

**pysa** scans and reproduces existing users ( **/etc/passwd** ).

Primary key: **name**  

groups - group
--------------

**pysa** scans and reproduces existing groups ( **/etc/groups** ).

Primary key: **name**  

mounts - mount
--------------

**pysa** scans and reproduces existing mount points ( **/etc/fstab** ).

Primary key: **device**  

crons - cron
------------

**pysa** scans and reproduces user's crons.

Primary key: **name**  

ssh keys - key
--------------

**pysa** scans and reproduces root SSH keys (default **/root/.ssh** ).
The scan must be done by root to assure this feature.

SSH keys are manages as files.

Primary key: **name**  

sources repositories - source
-----------------------------

**pysa** is able to recognize all source repositories managed by the
most common SCM ( **subversion** , **git** and **mercurial** ) present
in the system.

Primary key: **path**  

package managers repositories - repository
------------------------------------------

**pysa** scans and reproduces **yum** and **apt-get** repositories.

Primary key: **name**  

AUTOCONF TOOLS MODULES
----------------------

This section lists the autoconf tools' modules which may be used.

Modules are used for particular features and are only needed in some
particular cases. Of course, modules (as with the autoconf tools) have
to be installed on the new machine, not the original one.  

Puppet modules
--------------

willdurand/nodejs: add npm package manager support

nodes/php: add php package manager support

puppetlabs/vcsrepo: add scm (sources) support

to install a *Puppet* module: puppet module install \*module-name\*  

FILTERS
-------

**pysa** integrates a powerful filters engine, which allows you to adapt
its behavior to your needs.

A filter file is composed of sections, keys and values. In some specific
cases sections and/or keys can be split using a '.' (see below for more
details).

A key can be tagged with '\_' at the front to be considered as "action"
key. An action key is a key representing a specific action in the
section (see below).

If some parameters conflict then the result may be harmful, please use
it carefully. Don't hesitate to report any abnormal output to us.

Some improvements are planned in this section.  

common action keys
------------------

\_contentrefer

This key acts as a pointer. All the content of the referred section will
be interpreted in the section.

This key should be set alone, as all keys will be replaced.

 

addition section
----------------

section description

This section is used to add or modify some values.

It can sounds similar to the replace section, but works in a completely
different way:
     - The key is based on section key instead of content to replace
     - It is replaced at the scanning step, while the " **replacement**
" section is done at the output generation step

Remember that " **addition** " is used to add/set a concrete parameter,
while " **replace** " is used to replace some content.

The section name can be separate in multiple subsections using a dot
'.', always starting by " **addition** " keyword:
     - "addition.resource\_type" will replace values for all objects of resource\_type
     - "addition.resource\_type.key.value" will replace only the values for the objects where the key/value match the requirement

The key represents the resource key.

The value represents the resource value.

section format

section\_key = section\_value

section action keys

No action key for this section.

 

discard section
---------------

section description

This section is used to specify which object should or shouldn't be
discard.

The key is separated in to two sub-keys by a dot '.', which represents
the object type for the first one and the attribute name for the second
one.

The values can be seen as a list of attributes separated by a coma ','.

The joker '\*' can be used to specify to match all characters.

section format

object.attribute\_name = attribute1, attribute2\*, ...

section action keys

\_resources: resource names
            Select which resources to be scanned, use it carefully, some resources might depend on others.

 

replace section
---------------

section description

This section is used to replace any kind of content.

The section name can be separated into multiple subsections using a dot
'.', always starting by " **replace** " keyword:
     - "replace" will replace all values for all objects.
     - "replace.object" will replace all values for the selected object.
     - "replace.object.field" will replace only the values associated with the field in the selected object.

The key represents the new value.

The value(s) represents the target to replace.

section format

new\_value = old\_value1, old\_value2, ...

section action keys

\_replaceall: true/false
             REQUIRED
             Select the filtering mode (replace all except -true- or replace none except -false-)
             default: true \_except: primary\_keys\_values

 

update section
--------------

section description

This section is used to specify which " **package** " should be updated.
This section has been created due to the lack of old packages in many
repositories.

A list of package names is specified as values of the " **except** "
key, separated by a coma ','.

The joker '\*' can be used to specify to match all characters.

section format

except = package1, package2\*, \*package3, \*package4\*, ...

section action keys

\_update: true/false
         REQUIRED
         Select the filtering mode (update all except -true- or update none except -false-)
         default: false

 

USAGE EXAMPLES
--------------

See *docs/examples* for configuration file examples.  

NOTES
-----

**pysa** has been inspired by a software called *Blueprint* (more
information at
`http://devstructure.com/blueprint/ <http://devstructure.com/blueprint/>`_
)

**pysa** is currently in and so does not (always) provide 100%
functional results. This comes from the architectural choices that we've
made. For example, **pysa** does not (yet) support the addition of
user's packages, simply because we can't ensure the availability of
these packages on the new system.

Furthermore, **pysa** depends on "autoconf" tools. This means that if a
feature is not supported by one of these tools, **pysa** can't provide
it. For example, it is currently impossible to use upstart services on a
redhat-based platform, as it is impossible to use npm package manager on
Ubuntu.

Please don't hesitate to contact us for any kind of feedback, advice or
requirement: `pysa@madeiracloud.com <mailto:pysa@madeiracloud.com>`_.

If you have a question about a specific source file, you can also
contact the author directly (see the **AUTHOR** section)  

SEE ALSO
--------

**`puppet <http://docs.puppetlabs.com/man/>`_\ (1)**  

BUGS
----

No known bugs.  

AUTHOR
------

MADEIRACLOUD LTD.
(`www.madeiracloud.com <http://www.madeiracloud.com>`_)

Thibault BRONCHAIN (`thibault@mc2.io <mailto:thibault@mc2.io>`_)

Ken CHEN (`ken@mc2.io <mailto:ken@mc2.io>`_)

Michael CHO (`michael@mc2.io <mailto:michael@mc2.io>`_)

--------------

 

Index
-----

`NAME <#lbAB>`_

`SYNOPSIS <#lbAC>`_

`DESCRIPTION <#lbAD>`_

`OPTIONS <#lbAE>`_

`RESOURCES <#lbAF>`_

`configuration files - file <#lbAG>`_

`packages - package <#lbAH>`_

`services - service <#lbAI>`_

`hosts - host <#lbAJ>`_

`users - user <#lbAK>`_

`groups - group <#lbAL>`_

`mounts - mount <#lbAM>`_

`crons - cron <#lbAN>`_

`ssh keys - key <#lbAO>`_

`sources repositories - source <#lbAP>`_

`package managers repositories - repository <#lbAQ>`_

`AUTOCONF TOOLS MODULES <#lbAR>`_

`Puppet modules <#lbAS>`_

`FILTERS <#lbAT>`_

`common action keys <#lbAU>`_

`addition section <#lbAV>`_

`discard section <#lbAW>`_

`replace section <#lbAX>`_

`update section <#lbAY>`_

`USAGE EXAMPLES <#lbAZ>`_

`NOTES <#lbBA>`_

`SEE ALSO <#lbBB>`_

`BUGS <#lbBC>`_

`AUTHOR <#lbBD>`_

--------------

This document was created by `man2html <#>`_, using the manual pages.
 Time: 11:12:49 GMT, May 31, 2013
