.. _install:


Installation guide
==================

Before installing django-flashpolicies, you'll need to have a copy of
`Django <http://www.djangoproject.com>`_ already installed. For
information on obtaining and installing Django, consult the `Django
download page <http://www.djangoproject.com/download/>`_, which offers
convenient packaged downloads and installation instructions.

The |version| release of django-flashpolicies officially supports
Django 1.4 and 1.5; older versions may work, but are not tested or
supported. Python 2.6 and 2.7 are supported for Django 1.4 and 1.5.

Additionally, on Django 1.5, django-flashpolicies |version| is tested
and supported for Python 3.3. See :ref:`the
django-flashpolicies FAQ <faq>` for additional notes on Django and
Python version support.


Installing django-flashpolicies
-------------------------------

There are several ways to install django-flashpolicies:

* Automatically, via a Python package installer.

* Manually, by downloading a copy of the release package and
  installing it yourself.

* Manually, by performing a Mercurial checkout of the latest code.

It is also highly recommended that you learn to use `virtualenv
<http://pypi.python.org/pypi/virtualenv>`_ for development and
deployment of Python software; ``virtualenv`` provides isolated Python
environments into which collections of software (e.g., a copy of
Django, and the necessary settings and applications for deploying a
site) can be installed, without conflicting with other installed
software. This makes installation, testing, management and deployment
far simpler than traditional site-wide installation of Python
packages.


Automatic installation via a package manager
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Several automatic package-installation tools are available for Python;
the most popular are `easy_install
<http://peak.telecommunity.com/DevCenter/EasyInstall>`_ and `pip
<http://pip.openplans.org/>`_. Either can be used to install
django-flashpolicies.

Using ``easy_install``, type::

    easy_install django-flashpolicies

Using ``pip``, type::

    pip install django-flashpolicies


Manual installation from a downloaded package
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you prefer not to use an automated package installer, you can
download a copy of django-flashpolicies and install it manually. The
latest release package can be downloaded from `django-flashpolicies'
listing on the Python Package Index
<http://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-flashpolicies/>`_.

Once you've downloaded the package, unpack it (on most operating
systems, simply double-click; alternately, type ``tar zxvf
django-flashpolicies-|version|.tar.gz`` at a command line on Linux, Mac OS
X or other Unix-like systems). This will create the directory
``django-flashpolicies-|version|``, which contains the ``setup.py``
installation script. From a command line in that directory, type::

    python setup.py install

Note that on some systems you may need to execute this with
administrative privileges (e.g., ``sudo python setup.py install``).


Manual installation from a Mercurial checkout
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you'd like to try out the latest in-development code, you can
obtain it from the django-flashpolicies repository, which is hosted at
`Bitbucket <http://bitbucket.org/>`_ and uses `Mercurial
<http://www.selenic.com/mercurial/wiki/>`_ for version control. To
obtain the latest code and documentation, type::

    hg clone http://bitbucket.org/ubernostrum/django-flashpolicies/

This will create a copy of the django-flashpolicies Mercurial
repository on your computer; you can then the ``django-flashpolicies``
directory inside the checkout your Python import path, or use the
``setup.py`` script to perform a global installation from that code.


Basic configuration and use
---------------------------

Once installed, you can take advantage of django-flashpolicies on any
Django-based site you're developing. Simply add ``flashpolicies`` to
your ``INSTALLED_APPS`` setting (django-flashpolicies provides no
models, so running ``manage.py syncdb`` is not required), and then
configure one or more appropriate URL patterns to serve your
cross-domain policy (or policies).

For most cases, you'll simply need a single pattern, in your root
URLconf, pointing the URL ``/crossdomain.xml`` (the standard location
for a cross-domain policy) to the view
:func:`flashpolicies.views.simple`, passing a list of domains from
which you'd like to allow access. For example, to enable access for
Flash content served from the domains ``media.example.com`` and
``api.example.com``, the following URL pattern in your root URLconf
would suffice:

.. code-block:: python

    url(r'^crossdomain.xml$',
        'flashpolicies.views.simple',
        {'domains': ['media.example.com', 'api.example.com']}),


URL configuration and interaction with ``APPEND_SLASH``
-------------------------------------------------------

Your master policy file -- the only policy file on your domain, in
most cases -- **must** be served from exactly the URL
``/crossdomain.xml``. So if your site is at ``example.com``, the
master policy file must be served from
``http://example.com/crossdomain.xml``.

As such, the Django instance in which django-flashpolicies is used
must be serving from the root of the domain. If this is not possible,
you will need to find an alternate method of serving your domain's
cross-domain policy; one option is to manually create a
:class:`~flashpolicies.policies.Policy` instance, and serialize it
(the simplest way is via ``str()``, though for more fine-grained
control see the :attr:`~flashpolicies.policies.Policy.xml_dom`
attribute), writing the result to a file which can be handled normally
by your web server.

If you are using Django with the `CommonMiddleware
<http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/middleware/#module-django.middleware.common>`_
enabled and the ``APPEND_SLASH`` setting set to ``True`` (by default,
this is the case for any newly-created Django project), you will need
to be careful in defining the URL patterns used for serving
cross-domain policies. In particular, you'll want to use the regular
expression ``^crossdomain.xml$`` -- *without* trailing slash -- for
the URL. Django's ``CommonMiddleware`` will not attempt to append a
slash when an existing URL pattern matches without the trailing slash.
